# 0x05. Processes and signals
<kbd>DevOps</kbd> <kbd>Shell</kbd> <kbd>Bash</kbd> <kbd>Syscall</kbd> <kbd>Scripting</kbd>

## Resources
### Read/watch
* [Linux PID](https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/zh33PXDR6w_qyu7zXUezmw)
* [Linux process](https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/px2TdWSjVO8i9SB5gHchAw)
* [Linux signal](https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/qQSGz9CN52PVF3IPCuaRiw)
* [Process management in Linux](https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/XlYrlghzNZ6Z1cbI_IPaiA)

### man or help:
* `ps`
* `pgrep`
* `pkill`
* `kill`
* `exit`
* `trap`

## General
* What is a PID?
> A PID (process identification number) is a number that is automatically assigned to each process when it is created in Unix-like operating systems.
* What is a process?
> A process is a running instance of a program.
* How to find a process’ PID
> The PID of a process currently on the system can be found using the `ps` command or the `pstree` command.
* How to kill a process
> The `kill` command is used together with a process' PID to terminate a frozen or otherwise problematic program.
* What is a signal?
> A signal is an event generated by UNIX systems in response to some condition.
* What are the 2 signals that cannot be ignored?
> These are Non-Maskable signals:
>> SIGKILL - If a process gets this signal, it must quit immediately and will not perform any clean-up operations.
>> SIGTERM - Software termination signal

## Requirements
* Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`
* Files will be interpreted on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
* Files should end with a new line
* A `README.md` file at the root of the folder of the project
* Bash script files must be executable
* Bash script must pass `Shellcheck` (version `0.7.0`) without any error
* The first line of all Bash scripts should be exactly `#!/usr/bin/env bash`
* The second line of all Bash scripts should be a comment explaining what is the script doing
